.TH OPENC2E 1 "2020-04-08" "" ""

.SH NAME
openc2e - Open source creatures engine


.SH SYNOPSIS
openc2e [\fB\-d\fR \fIdata path\fR] [\fB\-g\fR \fIgametype\fR] [other arguments...]


.SH DESCRIPTION
Openc2e is a cross-platform open-source game engine designed to be compatible
with the various game engines of the Creatures artificial-life game series.


.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Show a brief summary of options

.IP "\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
Show version string and exit

.IP "\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR"
Disable audio subsystem. It will not be possible to unmute from the UI.

.IP "\fB\-k\fR \fIbackend\fR, \fB\-\-backend\fR=\fIbackend\fR"
Selects the graphics backend. Use \fB\-\-help\fR to get a listing of available
backends.

.IP "\fB\-o\fR \fIbackend\fR, \fB\-\-audiobackend\fR=\fIbackend\fR"
Selects the audio backend. Use \fB\-\-help\fR to get a listing of available
backends.

.IP "\fB\-d\fR \fIpath\fR, \fB\-\-data\-path\fR=\fIpath\fR"
Adds a directory to the search path for game data. If none are provided, a
somewhat unhelpful default will be selected.

.IP "\fB\-b\fR \fIpath\fR, \fB\-\-bootstrap\fR=\fIpath\fR"
Adds a directory or file to the list of scripts to be run at world initialization.
If not provided, a default depending on gametype will be selected.

.IP "\fB\-g\fR \fIgametype\fR, \fB\-\-gametype\fR=\fIgametype\fR"
Selects the game type to use. (c1, c2, cv, or c3)

.IP "\fB\-m\fR \fIgamename\fR, \fB\-\-gamename\fR=\fIgamename\fR"
Sets the game name

.IP "\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-norun\fR"
Stop running after executing the initial scripts

.IP "\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-autokill\fR"
Enables autokill

.IP "\fB\-\-autostop\fR"
Enables autostop (disables on CV)


.SH "BUGS"
Lots. File some at <http://code.google.com/p/openc2e/>


.SH "NOTES"
You will need a copy of one of the commercial creatures games in order to
use openc2e. Docking station can be downloaded for free from
<http://www.gamewaredevelopment.co.uk/ds/ds_index.php>.


.SH "AUTHOR"
.IP "Alyssa Milburn <fuzzie@fuzzie.org> (fuzzie)"
lead developer

.IP "Bryan Donlan <bdonlan@gmail.com> (bdonlan)"
virtual machine and core developer

.IP "Eric Goodwin <diagonalfish@gmail.com> (muffin)"
Windows builds, documentation and bugfixes

.IP "Jeremy Apthorp <nornagon@gmail.com> (nornagon)"
core developer

.IP "Bertram Bourdrez <bertram@bourdrez.org> (bbz)"
misc developer

.IP "Dylan William Hardison <dylan@haverdev.org> (dylan)"
misc developer


.SH "COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE"
Copyright 2008 by the above.
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
