=head1 NAME

openc2e - Open source creatures engine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

openc2e [B<-d> I<data path>] [B<-g> I<gametype>] [other arguments...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Openc2e is a cross-platform open-source game engine designed to be compatible
with the various game engines of the Creatures artificial-life game series.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show a brief summary of options

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Show version string and exit

=item B<-s>, B<--silent>

Disable audio subsystem. It will not be possible to unmute from the UI.

=item B<-k> I<backend>, B<--backend>=I<backend>

Selects the graphics backend. Use B<--help> to get a listing of available
backends.

=item B<-o> I<backend>, B<--audiobackend>=I<backend>

Selects the audio backend. Use B<--help> to get a listing of available
backends.

=item B<-d> I<path>, B<--data-path>=I<path>

Adds a directory to the search path for game data. If none are provided, a
somewhat unhelpful default will be selected.

=item B<-b> I<path>, B<--bootstrap>=I<path>

Adds a directory or file to the list of scripts to be run at world initialization.
If not provided, a default depending on gametype will be selected.

=item B<-g> I<gametype>, B<--gametype>=I<gametype>

Selects the game type to use. (c1, c2, cv, or c3)

=item B<-m> I<gamename>, B<--gamename>=I<gamename>

Sets the game name

=item B<-n>, B<--norun>

Stop running after executing the initial scripts

=item B<-a>, B<--autokill>

Enables autokill

=item B<--autostop>

Enables autostop (disables on CV)

=back

=head1 BUGS

Lots. File some at L<http://code.google.com/p/openc2e/>

=head1 NOTES

You will need a copy of one of the commercial creatures games in order to
use openc2e. Docking station can be downloaded for free from
L<http://www.gamewaredevelopment.co.uk/ds/ds_index.php>.

=head1 AUTHOR

=over 4


=item Alyssa Milburn <fuzzie@fuzzie.org> (fuzzie)

lead developer

=item Bryan Donlan <bdonlan@gmail.com> (bdonlan)

virtual machine and core developer

=item Eric Goodwin <diagonalfish@gmail.com> (muffin)

Windows builds, documentation and bugfixes

=item Jeremy Apthorp <nornagon@gmail.com> (nornagon)

core developer

=item Bertram Bourdrez <bertram@bourdrez.org> (bbz)

misc developer

=item Dylan William Hardison <dylan@haverdev.org> (dylan)

misc developer

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2008 by the above.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

